Hey welcome back.
So we saw multiple inheritance we saw the trivial example of aquatic and ambulatory and Penguin classes
where the penguin class inherited both from aquatic and ambulatory to different classes.
They both had a greet method and the question was Why does the code one greet versus the other and how
is that order stablished.
So I said that you know if we put aquatic first then we get the aquatic greet we put ambulatory first
and we get the ambulatory greet but it's not always that simple.
You might have multiple classes and then aquatic might inherit from two other classes and they might
you know also have greet and ambulatory might inherit from another class that has great.
And the diagram might be crazy complex.
So in that in a case like that how do you know what the order will be that things will be run.
And the answer has to do with something called method resolution order or m r.
So whenever you create a class Python automatically sets a method resolution order or MRO for the class
which is basically just the order in which Python is going to look for methods on instances of that
class.
So it's like a hierarchy.
I'm going to look here first on Penguin and then I'm going to look on aquatic and then I'm going to
look on what was the other one ambulatory.
And then I'll look on the base object class.
So that would be the example or one potential example from last video.
And the way that Python actually establishes the order the algorithm behind it it has changed over the
years I believe it changed from Python 2 to 3.
There is a shift.
And on top of that it is pretty complex and there's entire blog posts that are very long devoted to
dissecting the algorithm.
This here is the documentation for 2.3.
So not exactly what we want but I just want to show you if we scroll down you can see it starts to get
into a decent amount of math and also some ASCII art here.
But it talks about you know the algorithm and how it works.
We are not going to get into the nitty gritty details of this.
Instead I'm going to show you three different ways just to access and see the MRO for a given class
so that if you're working with your own class or a class at someone else to find an external module
or even a built in thing and you just want to know what the MRO is you have three different things that
you can use three different ways to find out.
So there is a dunder MRO attribute that is built into classes so you can call that on any class you
define or any other class you come across.
There's an MRO method that you just pass the class into and then there's the built in help function.
We've already seen you pass an int class name and this is the most ideal.
I don't know it's one I like the best.
It just gives you the most readable human format to see what's happening.
So for example using the penguin class with donder MRO we get this little tuple back.
If you do the MRO method of belief you get a list and then if we do help it opens up this more readable
thing that's better for us humans to look at.
I assume that you are human watching this.
It's easier for us to read.
Ok example time.
And before I dive into the details of this I just want to say this is another thing that most Python
courses I've seen Actually I haven't seen any course new to me that covers this but this is not something
you have to panic about.
If it does confuse you but it's just kind of cool to know how it works.
So I have a simple example with what is this four different classes and there is the base a class there's
a B class that inherits from a.
There's a C class that also inherits from a.
So we sort of have this sort of this shape going on we have an A and then we have B inheriting and C
inheriting as well and then we have D which inherits from both B and C..
So this diagram is hideous me.
Let me clean it up OK.
Did my best.
It looks something like this.
So if the base class A which then B and C both inherit from and then d inherits from B and C as well.
So it's not as simple as you know just a linear thing where we have a B and then d that inherits from
B instead there's some ambiguity.
And on top of that.
So there's a method called do something that's defined in all four classes and all that it does is print
method defined in and then the class that has been defined.
So if I print well first and make a new instance of d then I print thing do something.
What do we expect to see just based off of our previous experience.
It should call do something that is defined in the class which is this one here should say method defined
in D.
So let's check that.
Run the file and we get where we expected method defined in D.
OK.
So now the trickier thing I'm going to comment this one out and if I just leave it like this will actually
get an error because I thought I was going to.
I mean the class is empty and it's going to tell us it expects indented block so we can just add a pass
for this empty class.
So now which version of Do something is called.
Because both B and C both of them have to do something to find which one is called and to find out definitively
what we can do is use common.
Both of these out what we can do is use MRO so we can do a print d dot underscore double underscore
MRO like this.
That was the first method and that will tell us protection not a method but by method I mean first way
of finding it out.
So we get this and you can see here goes from D then to B then to C then to a and then to the base object
class.
Our next option is to do d dot MRO method there.
And this just gives us a list.
Same order.
So all of them should give us the same order.
Otherwise there would be a big problem.
And then finally the one that I prefer is help the and you've seen this before it it opens up this little
menue thing.
And up here you can see method resolution order and it's just printed out in a nicer way for us to read
when we don't have to see like a tuple that says class and all those brackets we just C D B C A built
and thought object.
OK so this explains it best.
DBC a cue to get out of there let's go back Alief those three commented out and if we go here again.
So we decided it was we didn't decide but we saw it was D B C A object comment that out.
So we have that.
If you're looking at the notes.
So now if I run this we get method defined and B which makes sense B was next after D which would come
up.
OK.
So we could come and topee at a pass in there and we should expect it to go where to see next and we
get method defined in C and then one more time pass we get method defined in a.
Which is this one.
OK.
And if we did come at this out and get a pass here what would we expect to find.
Well we'd get an error.
It's going to look on D.
There's something called do something in C and B and so on and a and we'll look.
I believe I'll look on the base object as well.
And there's definitely nothing called Do something.
So will throw an error saying D has nothing called do something I don't know what you want and if you
do run it there we go.
The object has no attribute do something.
So lastly what this means is that when we call super let's say in D instead of this method I referred
to super.
It's going to refer to whatever is next in line and that MRO.
So be super on its own will get that far.
But if you do super dot do something.
And we tried running this now we should see d and then B which is exactly what we get.
So back in the previous video with the multiple inheritance example with Penguin an ambulatory and aquatic
when we were calling super.
It was using the first thing while it was Penguin and then I can't remember which order I had it in.
But then ambulatory and then aquatic.
So super instead of penguin was referring to the next thing in line.
Same thing here.
So I won't do the entire thing but we could keep going up the chain here.
Superdad do something to stop after this.
Now we get Dibiase and if we kept going.
Next up would be.
All righty.
I'll leave it at that MRO is very complex and how it's actually calculated how Python sets it up and
figures out the order things should be resolved.
But for us there are these three different ways that we can find out the calculated MRO for a given
class and I prefer.
OK.
Moving on.